docs/index.md, before:

# Table of contents

Baserow is an open-source online database tool. Users can use this no-code platform to
create a database without any technical experience. It lowers the barriers to app
creation so that anyone who can work with a spreadsheet can also create a database. The
interface looks a lot like a spreadsheet. Our goal is to provide a perfect and fast user
experience while keeping it easy for developers to write plugins and maintain the
codebase. The developer documentation contains several topics you might need as a
developer.

## Getting started

New to Baserow? This is the place to start.

* [Introduction](./getting-started/introduction.md): An introduction to some important
  concepts before using Baserow.
* [API](./getting-started/api.md): An introduction to the REST API and information about
  API resources.
* [WebSocket API](./getting-started/web-socket-api.md): An introduction to the
  WebSockets API which is used to broadcast real time updates.
* [Database plugin](./getting-started/database-plugin.md) An introduction to the
  database plugin which is installed by default.

## Guides

Need some help with setting things up?

* [Running Locally](guides/running-baserow-locally.md): A step-by-step guide to run
  Baserow on your computer.
* [Install on Cloudron](guides/installation/install-on-cloudron.md): Instructions
  to manually install Baserow on Cloudron.
* [Install on Ubuntu](./guides/installation/install-on-ubuntu.md): A step-by-step guide
  to install Baserow on an Ubuntu server.

## Development

Everything related to contributing and developing for Baserow.

* [Development environment](./development/development-environment.md): More detailed
  information on baserow's local development environment.
* [Running the Dev Environment](development/running-the-dev-environment.md): A
  step-by-step guide to run Baserow for development.
* [Directory structure](./development/directory-structure.md): The structure of all the
  directories in the Baserow repository explained.
* [Tools](./development/tools.md): The tools (flake8, pytest, eslint, etc) and how to
  use them.
* [Code quality](./development/code-quality.md): More information about the code style,
  quality, choices we made, and how we enforce them.
* [Create a template](./development/create-a-template.md): Create a template that can be
  previewed and installed by others.
* [dev.sh](./development/dev_sh.md): Further details on how to use Baserow's `./dev.sh`
  helper script.

## FAQs 

* [Baserow Docker How To](./guides/baserow-docker-how-to.md): Common operations and
  solutions for working with baserow's docker environments.

## Reference 

* [Baserow Docker API](./reference/baserow-docker-api.md): An API reference with all
  supported environment variables, command line arguments and usage patterns for
  Baserow's docker images and compose files.

## Plugins

Everything related to custom plugin development.

* [Plugin basics](./plugins/introduction.md): An introduction into Baserow plugins.
* [Plugin boilerplate](./plugins/boilerplate.md): Don't reinvent the wheel, use the
  boilerplate for quick plugin development.
* [Create application](./plugins/application-type.md): Want to create an application
  type? Learn how to do that here.
* [Create database table view](./plugins/view-type.md): Display table data like a
  calendar, Kanban board or however you like by creating a view type.
* [Create database table view filter](./plugins/view-filter-type.md): Filter the rows of
  a view with custom conditions.
* [Create database table field](./plugins/field-type.md): You can store data in a custom
  format by creating a field type.
* [Creata a field converter](./plugins/field-converter.md): Converters alter a field and
  convert the related data for specific field changes.

## Other

* [External resources related to Baserow](./other/external-resources.md): A list of
  external third party resources.

Commit message:

Initial drafts of formula docs

docs/index.md, after:

# Table of contents

Baserow is an open-source online database tool. Users can use this no-code platform to
create a database without any technical experience. It lowers the barriers to app
creation so that anyone who can work with a spreadsheet can also create a database. The
interface looks a lot like a spreadsheet. Our goal is to provide a perfect and fast user
experience while keeping it easy for developers to write plugins and maintain the
codebase. The developer documentation contains several topics you might need as a
developer.

## Getting started

New to Baserow? This is the place to start.

* [Introduction](./getting-started/introduction.md): An introduction to some important
  concepts before using Baserow.
* [API](./getting-started/api.md): An introduction to the REST API and information about
  API resources.
* [WebSocket API](./getting-started/web-socket-api.md): An introduction to the
  WebSockets API which is used to broadcast real time updates.
* [Database plugin](./getting-started/database-plugin.md) An introduction to the
  database plugin which is installed by default.

## Guides

Need some help with setting things up or understanding how Baserow works?

* [Running Locally](guides/running-baserow-locally.md): A step-by-step guide to run
  Baserow on your computer.
* [Install on Cloudron](guides/installation/install-on-cloudron.md): Instructions
  to manually install Baserow on Cloudron.
* [Install on Ubuntu](./guides/installation/install-on-ubuntu.md): A step-by-step guide
  to install Baserow on an Ubuntu server.
* [Understanding Baserow Formulas](./guides/understanding-baserow-formulas.md): A guide
  explaining how to use the formula field in Baserow.
* [Formula Technical Guide](./guides/formula-technical-guide.md): A more technical guide
  about formulas aimed at developers who want to understand and work with internals of 
  Baserow formulas.

## Development

Everything related to contributing and developing for Baserow.

* [Development environment](./development/development-environment.md): More detailed
  information on baserow's local development environment.
* [Running the Dev Environment](development/running-the-dev-environment.md): A
  step-by-step guide to run Baserow for development.
* [Directory structure](./development/directory-structure.md): The structure of all the
  directories in the Baserow repository explained.
* [Tools](./development/tools.md): The tools (flake8, pytest, eslint, etc) and how to
  use them.
* [Code quality](./development/code-quality.md): More information about the code style,
  quality, choices we made, and how we enforce them.
* [Create a template](./development/create-a-template.md): Create a template that can be
  previewed and installed by others.
* [dev.sh](./development/dev_sh.md): Further details on how to use Baserow's `./dev.sh`
  helper script.

## FAQs 

* [Baserow Docker How To](./guides/baserow-docker-how-to.md): Common operations and
  solutions for working with baserow's docker environments.

## Reference 

* [Baserow Docker API](./reference/baserow-docker-api.md): An API reference with all
  supported environment variables, command line arguments and usage patterns for
  Baserow's docker images and compose files.

## Plugins

Everything related to custom plugin development.

* [Plugin basics](./plugins/introduction.md): An introduction into Baserow plugins.
* [Plugin boilerplate](./plugins/boilerplate.md): Don't reinvent the wheel, use the
  boilerplate for quick plugin development.
* [Create application](./plugins/application-type.md): Want to create an application
  type? Learn how to do that here.
* [Create database table view](./plugins/view-type.md): Display table data like a
  calendar, Kanban board or however you like by creating a view type.
* [Create database table view filter](./plugins/view-filter-type.md): Filter the rows of
  a view with custom conditions.
* [Create database table field](./plugins/field-type.md): You can store data in a custom
  format by creating a field type.
* [Creata a field converter](./plugins/field-converter.md): Converters alter a field and
  convert the related data for specific field changes.

## Other

* [External resources related to Baserow](./other/external-resources.md): A list of
  external third party resources.
